### Compartment circuit specification and parameter selection

The compartment circuit contains two different types of neural population. Artificial neural populations that represents reverberating activity and the biological populations of LIF neurons simulated with population density techniques. Each neural population can be either excitatory or inhibitory and so only connections from the same type can come from them, respecting Dale's law.

The artificial reverberating populations are specified by four parameters. The slope of rate change, the maximum rate sustained, the duration of the reverberating activity and the kickoff input rate. Only control (Ctl) populations and WM are represented by reverberating populations. Moreover due to the artificial nature of WM, their incoming excitatory connections were simplified by considering them also as an artificial connection that perfectly transmits the firing rate from its source to the WM. This way we can add the rate of the source nodes in a straightforward way and avoid meaningless tuning of an artificial kickoff input rate for WM.

We observed empirically during the design process that strong oscillatory behavior would be triggered if neural populations are suddenly excited disproportionately with respect to their initial rate of activity, around one or half order of magnitude above. This strong oscillatory behavior mixed with the recurrent nature of the circuit could create uncontrolled oscillatory behavior on the whole circuit that would make it unable to fulfill its purpose. This motivated including a slope of activation in the driving activity of WM and Ctl of 0.1 Hz/ms. Moreover it emphasized the important role of the inhibitory activity of Gate Keeper (GK) populations on Gate (G) populations to avoid activity to spill uncontrollably in a recurrent way in the circuit.

The LIF neural populations require the specification of the neuron model parameters. These were taken from Omurtag et al. (2000) \cite{omurtag2000simulation}. They comprise a membrane time constant of 0.005, a dimensionless threshold potential of 1, no refractive period and a reversal and reset membrane potentials of 0. Then we also need to specify their population density in a grid with a minimum and maximum potential and a number of bins. The bins are set to 500 and the maximum potential is selected then as 1, to match the threshold potential, while the minimum is chosen to be -0.02 to cover the density throughout the simulation. 

Selecting firing rates to tune the compartment circuit is a complex task given the contrast between the extremely simplified simulation and real neural networks that contain multiple types of neurons with diverging behavior across cortical layers \cite{Wohrer_2013}. Wohrer et al \cite{Wohrer_2013} shows from measurements in rat cortex that the actual firing rate distributions of neural networks do not differ much between resting state and evoked activity. The small difference would come from very few neurons that manage to drive up the mean firing rate in recordings while most neurons in the population are almost silent, some with rates as low as 0.1 Hz \cite{Kerr_2005}, whose activity might not even be picked up by most recording devices.

Although theoretical analysis of the distribution of firing rates in randomly recurrently connected networks of LIF neurons near the fluctuation-driven regime suggests considering mean firing rates around 6.4 Hz \cite{Roxin_2011}. Based on the review of Wohrer et al. \cite{Wohrer_2013}, particularly on the firing rate in motor areas of behaving macaques, we decided to opt for more conservative baseline firing rates of 1 Hz initially exciting all LIF neural populations in the circuit and an artificial reverberating activity of 10 Hz driving the circuit through WM. The firing rate of Ctl populations was determined empirically to be 4.5 Hz such that the joint contribution of SAs could surpass a kickoff rate of 10 Hz to initiate activity in WM. Since this work will not focus on the quantitative difference in neural activity but on the qualitative behavior of the blackboard during sentence processing we considered a more detailed analysis of firing rates out of scope. Nonetheless future work should try to assess this problem more carefully.

There are two parameters governing transmission of neural activity between neural populations. First we consider the synaptic efficacy of connections, which was set to a fixed value and homogeneous across the circuit under the lack of appropriate hypothesis to tinker it in a detailed manner. As exposed by London \cite{London_2002}, current understanding of synapsis is limited and even contextual measurements of efficacy might be more appropriate to understand the impact of synaptic input on spike output that actual set parameters of the synapse. Moreover recent evidence \cite{Briggs_2013} even shows that synaptic efficacy might be modulated by attention processes and is naive to consider it as a fixed parameter in a circuit. The study of Briggs \cite{Briggs_2013} suggest that synchronous firing of neurons with the same input has probabilities between 3.1 and 7.6 while single firing has probabilities ranging from 28% to 36% depending on the type of neurons considered and the attention state. So we decided to set synaptic efficacy for all neural populations at 36%, more aligned with neural populations during an attention state.

The second parameter governing transmission of neural activity was the number of connections between a pair of neural populations. Unlike synaptic efficacy, the number of connections was determined empirically. First the number of connections from a baseline (B) reverberating activity neural population to every other LIF neural population was determined to be 16, such that during rest the circuit activity would fluctuate around 1 Hz. Then the number of connections of all excitatory and inhibitory connections was determined to be 4 and 60 respectively such that baseline activity of the circuit would be stable, as well as the active state of the circuit during sentence processing. Notice, as mentioned before, the important difference between the number of connection of excitatory and inhibitory circuits to keep the circuit out of undesirable uncontrolled oscillatory regimes. 

With the number of connections we simply focus on passing forward mean activity to be able to instantiate binding through WM activation. Our simple approach ignore the intricacies found in different regimes to transmit information in neural networks, where some regimes might allow rich internal computations. \cite{Ostojic_2014}. Also it seems that connection distribution can have an impact in spike based communication \cite{Teramae_2012}. Nonetheless we considered to keep connections between two populations homogeneous and that further tuning of connection distributions would be out of the scope of this work.

Details of the simulated compartment circuit and its parameters is shown in Figure \ref{circuit_spec}. Moreover all the C++ code behind the circuit implementation, taking advantage of MIIND \cite{de_Kamps_2008} \cite{harrison2011new}, is available in the github repository xxx.