### Dynamics of complete sentence processing

As explained in the section "Simplified approach to the blackboard architecture", since we are not modeling the mutually inhibitory link between compartment circuits in the connection matrices of the blackboard circuit, we simply need to instantiate as many compartment circuits as necessary to simulate complete sentence processing. Moreover the only thing that could diverge between the activity of different compartment circuits is the particular time moments at which their dynamics are developed, since the dynamics themselves are identical.

We can identify, in the binding activity profile, four segments of neural dynamics that are dependent on Ctl events and WM events leading to activation of MAs. Between this segments periods of steady state activity can easily be adjusted to model different parameters of sentence processing like time of word presentations and the moments at which parsing operations would take place. The neural dynamic segments are highlighted in Figure \ref{dynamic_segments}. The first segment corresponds to the first MA activation and goes from 501ms to 607ms (106ms duration). The second segment incorporates activation of the second MA followed by Ctl activation just 50ms after for a duration of 100ms, in total the dynamics range from 801ms to 1240ms (439ms duration). The third segment is related to deactivation of the first MA and goes from 1550ms to 1720ms (170ms duration). Finally the fourth segment corresponds to deactivation of the second MA followed by deactivation of the binding WM, it goes from 1850ms to 2350ms (500ms duration).

Moreover from the partial activity profile of circuit activity we can extract an additional segment representing the stop of the first MA of activity when no other dynamics took place in the circuit, that goes from 1550ms to 1650ms (100ms duration). This is useful to model the case of list of words processing, in which MAs activity would be instantiated but no binding would take place.

The Python code employed to extract the segments and simulate complete sentence processing for a given tree structure is available in the Githug repository xxx.