Here we will only summarize the main abstract mechanisms and assumptions behind the blackboard architecture. For a deep review we recommend to read recently published circuit design and examples that focus on sentence processing \cite{de2015combinatorial} alongside the original framework proposal for combinatorial structures in cognition \cite{van_der_Velde_2006}.

The blackboard assumes grounded representations of concepts in a distributed or local neural population (main assembly, MA), while a particular type of binding of concepts is represented through the conditional activity of a neural population (sub assembly, SA) that leads to the activation of working memory related neural populations (working memory assembly, WM). So in the case of sentence processing we can think of the grammatical categories as the grounded concepts and of their corresponding syntax tree as a process realized through the conditional activity in the working memory circuits.

To understand how a sentence is processed in a blackboard architecture, we start by considering the simplest case of binding two grammatical categories. This takes place in one "compartment circuit" of a "connection matrix". The compartment circuit contains the SAs that encode the relationship type of the binding and the WM that keeps the binding for an arbitrary period of time. It is engineered with six simple "gating circuits". The gating circuit can be seen as the smallest meaningful circuit in a blackboard architecture, composed of interconnected neural assemblies such that neural activation is transferred conditionally between a source and target neural assemblies. Thanks to this, the compartment circuit allows bidirectional communication between the MAs encoding the grounded representation of the grammatical categories mediated by a neural control mechanism.

Then we consider the processing of a complete sentence syntactic structure. This takes place in "A blackboard", which is a set of connection matrices. Where each connection matrix determines the memory capacity and handles the dynamic binding of each pair of grammatical categories. A connection matrix manages memory slots dynamically through competing mutually inhibitory compartment circuits. Complete illustration of the blackboard architecture is given in Figure \ref{Blackboard}.

Finally, an important feature of the blackboard architecture is its flexibility to process and implicitly represent arbitrary tree structures. Most of the previous blackboard simulations considered quite flat tree structures corresponding to a dependency grammar\cite{nivre2005dependency}, where words elicit activity in MAs while their dependencies are represented by activity in WM and SAs. This overlooks other grammar theories that depend on constituency like a phrase structure grammar\cite{gazdar1982phrase}, where it is also necessary to instantiate MAs for phrasal categories. Nonetheless this can be easily resolved by allowing an active WM, due to the binding of two words, to instantiate activity in another MA, which then can participate in other bindings.