Once we have the neural dynamic segments of the compartment circuit, we need specification of the timing of parsing operations, the hypothesized tree structure to represent and the desired duration of WM activity. The number of compartment circuits necessary to make the simulation simply come from the tree structure. The timing of parsing operations is the time at which we expect each of the nodes of the tree structure to be translated into the WM activity of some compartment circuit.

One can see in the example of Figure \ref{sentence_example} how the hypothesized tree structure of a sentence and the timing of the activation of tree nodes is transformed into the neural activity of a blackboard. First we substract the baseline activity profile from the binding activity profile of the segments of neural dynamics used for the simulation. This is motivated by our interest in making comparisons with neuroimaging data. Then we simply add up the aligned time series of the different compartment circuits by neural population category or some other desired criteria. In the example, summaries of the activity of different LIF population are shown as well as total activity of the blackboard circuit. The way we actually aggregate time series to compare with neuroimaging data will depend on the spatial and temporal resolution available and the assumptions made about the spatial distribution of the blackboard in the cortex.

We assume that WM activation is long enough to allow all bindings in the tree to happen as words are incorporated in the blackboard. In the example words are presented every 600 ms, so we assume WM is active at least 2300ms to be able to bind the first word to an awaited phrase node activated after presentation of a fourth word. If WM was active for say less than 2000ms then activation of the MA would cease before the other MA and Ctl populations come into play for that compartment circuit. Notice in the example of Figure \ref{sentence_example} that the second phrasal node, necessary to bind the first word, effectively gets activated at 2076 ms.

So far we have implicitly considered activation of phrase nodes only as a result of word binding, which would be representative of a bottom-up parsing approach. This allow us to simply link the binding WM of a compartment circuit to the MA of another compartment circuit. Naively we assume that the control mechanism will in average act appropriately to bind MAs as they become available for binding, so 50ms after the second MA is activated, Ctl comes into play for 100ms. Clearly there are many parsing mechanisms available to experiment, that can easily grow in complexity and flexibility, as for example the generalized left corner parsing proposed by Hale\cite{hale2014automaton}. Exploring their implications for neural activity alongside the target tree structures given by the possible grammar theories is an important avenue of future research.