### Simplified approach to the blackboard architecture

The present implementation of the blackboard architecture respects its abstract mechanisms but do not implement them completely. Here we do not simulate complete connection matrices, the compartment circuits mutual inhibition mechanism is a complex operation for which there is no obvious implementation. There is already a proof of concept to understand the implementation of the mechanism in randomly connected networks, nonetheless it does not yet achieve a complete circuit level specification integrated with a complete blackboard architecture \cite{van_der_Velde_2011}. Instead we just instantiate compartment circuits as necessary, since in essence they would be selected randomly in a connection matrix from available compartments in the hypothesized connection matrices.

The compartment circuits abstraction is enough to achieve our current simulation goals since they all have qualitatively similar behavior and different connection matrices might only differ in their memory capacities. So we can consider the same compartment circuit simulation for all different pairs of grammatical categories, where the circuits would have similar dynamics and only vary in time of activation of their neural populations. Nonetheless we are only able to ignore the activity of complete connection matrices because we are not dealing with memory limits in the sentence processing scenario considered in the simulations. Otherwise important deviations in background neural activity due to depletion of available compartments in the connection matrices and intense inhibitory activity would become a crucial factor.

Moreover in the case of the control mechanism. Feed-forward artificial neural networks have already been employed with the blackboard architecture \cite{van_der_Velde_2010} and recently state of the art feedforward network architectures have shown top performance for diverse language parsing tasks \cite{Andor_2016}. Nonetheless implementing this neural architectures with biologically realistic simulations would be out of the scope of this work, since we are not investigating the whole neural activity related to parsing but only the portion specifically related with the formation and storage of a phrase structure with temporal events derived from some some assumed parsing mechanism. Moreover the expected phrase structure is also given by some specified grammar theory. So we will simply provide the control signals that will allow the neural activity flow from MAs to WM as necessary to process the hypothesized syntactic structure of a given set of sentences.