### Simulation framework and architectural decisions

Previous simulations of the blackboard approximate the mean activity of neural assemblies with Wilson Cowan dynamics \cite{Frank_2014} \cite{de2015combinatorial}. Nonetheless direct simulations of leaky-integrate-and-fire (LIF) neurons \cite{omurtag2000simulation} have faster transient behavior than the pseudo dynamics described by the Wilson Cowan equations. Such equations, as explained by De Kamps \cite{de_Kamps_2008}, only allow to approximate correctly the steady state of neural populations by suggesting what mean firing rates should be. On the other hand, population density techniques \cite{de2013generic} implemented in the MIIND software \cite{de_Kamps_2008} \cite{harrison2011new} can accurately describe the transient dynamics of large populations of the mentioned LIF neurons.

In Figure \ref{pdt_case} (taken from MIIND documentation, how can I cite this properly? claim permission of Marc?) one can see the great difference in the transient dynamics between the rate-based Wilson Cowan dynamics and population density techniques. Moreover one can appreciate how well population density techniques approximate the precise simulation of LIF neurons of Omurtag \cite{omurtag2000simulation}. Given that in this work we are interested in the transient dynamics of sentence processing and we will compare the simulation with real neural data we opted to implement the compartment circuits with population density techniques in MIIND instead of Wilson Cowan dynamics.

One could further argue that it is desirable to implement even more realistic simulations of conductance based neural models and neuron point models as those implementable with the RON, GENESIS and NEST software reviewed by Brette et al. \cite{brette2007simulation}. Nonetheless it has been shown that simpler 2D models like adaptive exponential integrate-and-fire can already predict correctly 96% of the spikes of detailed conductance models\cite{brette2005adaptive}. Although we think the 1D LIF model used in this work is a good compromise to simulate complex circuits we would suggest in future work moving to 2D models as it has been shown that they can also be approximated adequately with population density techniques \cite{apfaltrer2006population}.

In the case of reverberating populations like WM, we decided as a first approach to model such mechanism artificially. We plan to address the different alternatives to model reverberation with interacting neural populations in future work. In the current simulation a constant firing rate is kicked off by a specified level of input that is sustained for a desired period of time. Contrary to previous simulations \cite{velde2015ambiguity}, we do not consider SAs as reverberating neural populations. We find that SAs can show rich and interesting dynamics just by fulfilling their function of mediating activation of WM. In the case of MAs we model them as receiving input from WM populations instead of considering them as a reverberating circuit in themselves. This is done mostly to separate the notion of a concept stored in a WM from the recruitment of the MAs during parsing that would need to take place during sentence processing.