### The blackboard and Simpcomp stimuli

The Simpcomp experimental design contains phrases and word lists with 1 to 4 words. In the case of phrases there are two main categories, verb and noun phrases. Nonetheless all phrases are controlled to follow a right branched tree structure under a phrasal grammar theory. We show in Figure \ref{phrase_activity} The simulated blackboard activity for phrases and list of words. GKs and Gs that form part of WM binding or that are influenced by Ctl were separated into inner and outer circuit categories respectively, since they show different qualitative behaviors.

We can see from the activity in all populations that, as expected from a bottom-up parsing approach, neural activity not only is greater for bigger phrases but also its activity peak is delayed, since all bindings take place after the last word is processed. This also creates a sudden burst of activity after the last word is presented that differentiates itself from the rhythmic and monotonous previous increase in activity.

Moreover is possible to appreciate in Figure \ref{phrase_activity} the effects of the compartment circuit architecture in the activity patterns of the different populations. outer GKs are driven by MAs and SAs, while inner GKs are inhibited by WM after binding takes place. On the other hand outer Gs are completely driven by Ctl activity, while inner Gs follow the same pattern of activity of SAs due to the closed loop circuit formed when WM is active after binding. In the case of lists of words, MAs only drive outer GKs and the rest of populations in the compartment circuits stay at baseline levels of activity, as expected.

To compare more formally the dependence between the time series of LIF populations activity we can compute their Pearson correlation, that captures any linear dependence between two time series, and the distance correlation developed by Szekely\cite{Sz_kely_2009} that would capture any type of statistical dependence. Contrary to a Pearson correlation, a value of 0 in distance correlation does imply independence, so it can be clearly interpreted to identify the most decoupled dynamics of the circuit for further detailed analysis and comparison with neuroimaging data. Moreover the distance correlation would avoid the common pitfall of underestimating dependence between variables since it captures other relationships than linear. Still Pearson correlation can be informative in its sign and by comparing it with the distance correlation one can get an idea of the qualitative importance of the linear or non linear dependence between the time series.

We consider the added activity of a LIF population for each time point for each simulated blackboard as a sample for our correlation estimates and present them in Figure \ref{phrase_activity}. One can see for example how distance correlation appropriately captures a non linear dependence between inner GKs and outer Gs due to the Ctl activity leading to binding, that is ignored by a Pearson correlation measure. Also the contrast between distance correlation and Pearson correlation shows that the dependence between outer GKs and MAs and SAs is mostly linear.

Distance correlation reveals that the least mutually dependent group of LIF populations would be MAs, inner GKs and outer Gs, with distance correlation values that range from 0.4 to 0.64. Considering simultaneously other LIF populations introduce extreme distance correlation values, SAs have a value of 0.9 with inner GKs, outer GKs have a value of 0.94 with MAs and inner Gs have a value of 0.96 with inner GKs. So to model the separate influence of LIF populations on the neuroimaging measurements, at least based on the type of stimuli considered so far, we will consider only the activity from MAs, inner GKs and outer Gs.