\label{Blackboard} Blackboard architecture unveiled

A. A gating circuit that allows the implementation of conditional neural activity transfer between Neural assemblies X and Y through a gate assembly. The gate keeper assembly initially is also activated by the X assembly and then inhibits the gate assembly, so a control assembly has to inhibit the gate keeper assembly to let information flow through the gate assembly.
B. The architecture of one cell circuit of a connection matrix is shown. Six gating circuits are arranged such that conditional bidirectional neural activity flow is possible between two main assemblies. Control assemblies regulate the direction of information flow and allow the activation of sub assemblies. The two sub assemblies excite the working memory assembly which once activated encode the binding of the main assemblies and allow activation to flow between them if the controls allow it too.
C. Each connection matrix contain n by m cell circuits that encode the same relationship type between the same pair of assembly categories. There are m available assemblies for one category and n available assemblies for the complementary category and only one cell circuit can activate its working memory assembly to link two particular assemblies due to mutual row and column inhibition of cells in the connection matrix. The size of the connection matrix effectively represents memory limitations. A blackboard is composed of an arbitrary number of connection matrices that encode different relationship types for a pair of assembly categories.
D. A blackboard is composed of multiple connection matrices, where each of them is defined by two node categories and a relationship type between them.
E. Example of one possible tree structures out of the infinite that can be represented based on the specified connection matrices.